this episode of shadow vs. brought to
you by the awesome shadow versity crest
t-shirts there are tunic t-shirts over
mail on an authentic chain mail print
and the full shadow versity livery
t-shirt both the full crest and the
larger zoomed in crest of the helped
they are available through teespring
link in the description really quick one
guys because I just got a special
package in the mail and it is my 100
pound war boy now what's been
interesting is that with my other bow
some of the skeptics are saying that's
not really 70 pound shared you can't
fall back as NEP and you're clearly not
strong enough that okay you're just this
soft objects but that's what was the
implication but what if they were just
skeptical that oh but honestly I would
lie about that
no give me some measure please
but having said that because some of
these most extreme critics don't want to
give me any benefit of the doubt at all
if I don't actually show the weight of
my other boy
I get the feeling they'll still accuse
me of having lied about its draw weight
as they have implied I've done up to
this point that is not really seventy
seventy five-pound the manufacturer
marks this bow between sixty and seventy
five pounds and before I had an actual
tool to measure the draw weight and I
was growing two full drawer I was simply
trusting the manufacturer's marks that a
full draw this bow is 75 pounds but then
I realized my full draw might not be a
full 32 inches and so after that point
I've simply been stating then this bow
is 70 pounds so hopefully this will shut
them up and also perhaps establish that
I'm an honest person and I don't lie
about these things but okay because
they're trying to say that it wasn't
really 70 P and forget that bow let's
step it up to this one because you know
the maker actually says it is 90 to 110
pounds okay so let's really see what
weight this bow is and what a draw like
shadow versity can actually draw to you
and to what level I can draw this boy
because we'll measure our mark where my
fingers reach and then we're going to
weigh the draw weight according to my
drew length and then I also need a mark
a little bit further back from where my
finger is because the string is behind
the finger by about one to two
centimeters
sorry needed you know measure exactly
where I'm drawing to but let's figure
out what I can draw this sucker to that
was at the year that was my best one yet
I think that was a food Roebuck effect
aful oh that's exciting I haven't done
that yet I'm driver that's a trader you
have a goose I haven't drawn that that
far back yet let's see if I can do that
again
Pasha part of it I think is confidence
just um getting you being ready to just
shuck all of yourself into this sucker
and say let's do this you know I can do
that again my arm was collapsing a
little bit me I think you saw that now
they're two they're a couple of
centimeters say all right but I think
I've shown that I can work that now that
was - what yeah like uh let's let's
measure that distance so I leaning
forward
I was a bit bit right bent under the
weight but I drew back about here that
is correct
okay so I have to say this because some
of the biggest skeptics try and nitpick
in the most disingenuous way and I have
to get ahead of him because there's the
exact type of thing they'll try and use
to discredit this test that I
accidentally pulled the measuring tape a
little bit further out just now the
thing is they'll actually return that
portion back into the measuring tape out
of a frame I had already seen and
recorded in my head what lengths that
draw was and if you want to test it if
you have similar arm spans me just test
that arm span to see that unless I'm
only four foot tall this measurement is
properly accurate okay that was 29 to 30
inches hard to say exactly so look I'll
do one at 29 and 32 °c which range I'm
actually falling between
so we'll do you 29 Misha and then 30
measure you pull the string down there -
I measure my minimum draw weight and if
I manage to pull it back - was it 29 30
[Music]
let's see that was 29 inches let's see
how much that was and before any of you
get worried I do have a slight dyslexic
moment here where I accidentally say 110
instead of 101 but I correct myself very
quickly okay so don't get worried 110
pounds baby 110 pounds I just threw a
hundred ten here 110 sorry 101 101
Piatra sorry I'm a little dyslexic um
times 101 paon okay I just drew back a
hundred and one pound war boy baby let's
let's add on an extra inch to that major
all right
sorry reset
then
Oh hundred and see with an extra inch so
that actually might mean that about a
hundred pound mark is the sweet spot and
over drawing is only gonna give me a
marginal increase and so an extra inch
might get me to 103 104 but I think that
answers definitively this is a 100 pound
wall bone right and I can draw it this
is cool like oh let's really I'm getting
tired so I don't think I'll be out doing
this far but it's just fun or do you say
I've been having such fun with my new
longbow right and I mean I'm practicing
something and I think it's a significant
advantage from shooting on the right and
you know so what's the debate happening
at the moment but this is one thing that
I think is going to be very instructive
now my VAR 70 pounds here could I do it
with a heavy one yes I will I'm going to
build up the strength because all I need
to do in terms of how quickly I can draw
this pie is all I need to do is build up
the strength so it's as easy for 100
pound one as it is this so this is
actually this will be representative of
higher planets pose as well and so I had
a lovely assistant here who's gonna put
up a timer 60-second timer see how many
arrows
I can shoot within 60 seconds on the
lowest end of war bow granted but still
wool bow all right so I'm not gonna make
your sorry
you'll see I'll be told when to start
and see how we go three two one go
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 that's all yes how
many that ones we carry malice 16 there
is in a minute on a bloody wall by my
that's my best one yet so if I not only
managed to get 15 that was all 16 arrows
oh yeah now one of the key features
actually ah sorry one of the key
features of course is that when I
grabbed an arrow
okay less movements just like I'm saying
right when I bring it up here all right
I don't need to bring my arm back to
weave it through so alright so if I want
to do that I'd either need to raise it
higher to get it through onto the left
or um bring it forward bring my arm back
weave it through right then I could
knock and draw answer
I am sorry out of practice on shooting
on the left knee I can barely uh side
comfortable shooting on the ride is so
natural and instinctive now it's just
bang and then it's up on the string and
draw in one motion just like that and
you should you saw me doing you know
doing it heats now I wasn't actually
paying attention to my draw length so it
might have been ones that I weren't
drawing fully and I'll happily admit
that but if it was between that draw to
that draw I wasn't much of a difference
maybe I would have gotten 15 hours and
said it before 16 that's pretty cool
alright so in reflection I think I might
not have been fully drawing it and so
that might have affected the number not
much because there's not too much
difference oh this time I'm gonna type
myself in a minute but I'm not going to
be focusing on speed I'm gonna be
shooting casually okay just casually
Previn in and making sure it's food or
each time but this isn't me trying to be
as fast as I can
on and so these are casual shots with
this
method also to see how fast just
casually shooting is so I'm not going
for the most and we've already seen how
fast I can be shoot really really
focusing on look but now this time I
want to focus a little bit more on the
full drawer and the other one I wasn't
for like my whole focus in the previous
one previous side test was speed I
wasn't focusing on aiming and that was
pretty we didn't show the thing cuz uh
you know probably half landed on the
target and then there the others were a
mess but it was all and I got wide
grouping around the time it cuz again I
wasn't focusing on it now I want to
focus a little bit more aiming and a
little bit on um on making sure my draw
length is right and let's just and I'm
not even going to be trying to go fast
okay so my wife will just tell me winds
three two one okay
[Music]
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
admittedly I tried to push it further
nice on that last one probably wasn't
full draw length but just even casually
that's there and it's amazing how
distracting using giving times because I
think even some of the shots I might not
have remembered that full draw and so
that's still like I've you see even
casually I actually don't know how many
I shot them will go down come thanks
again
I actually was focusing on terminal
length and it's distracting so my
grouping exactly it's still up to either
honestly I miss most of them which means
I'm gonna have to do one more just
focusing on aiming to show you how
complain use get what I'm wearing we're
doing that because it's actually
improved a lot better than this how that
was what white ones drink yeah because
were you seeing at the whole hood who's
poor guy because as you can see we've
been leading a lot more hits on in the
light weight and so and so these crappy
white arrows are what I'm talking about
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 : 11 in a minute
just casually sweetie so one of the
things that I'm finding at the moment
I'm still combining all the different
skills because how long have I been
doing this like only 2 months ok as I
think my progress actually pretty good
for two months shooting with is by yeah
and on the right remember never shot on
the right
for then and so two months maybe a
little bit you know go back and find
when I post that original video um so
yeah I just seen that like the time um
I'm finding that if I focus it on
speeding I like speed shooting my aim is
off if I if its drawer weighing fully
either like I figured you know make sure
you grab it at the right angle and
things and that again pros why am I so
right now this is gonna be focusing on
aim as my thing and with practice all
these things are gonna combine and
become far more instinctive for me and
say yeah
burgers are nothing but hitting good as
like yeah
[Music]
reaping a bit tighter so most I landed
it on time actually I'm standing a
little closer than I usually do and you
come back to where I usually come from
this is very easily to say this is 20
meters
hey I measured it
I noticed that whenever I change a
variable
I like distance angle and stuff I just
need to recalibrate and so I'm shooting
a little lucky because I'm throwing away
so it's just gonna take a couple to
recalibrate you know I look consistently
from the bottom corner yeah
still hitting target so perfectly happy
with that oh that one was better you see
that was I'm not sure if the camera is
even focusing you can see it close to
the red but we'll walk down and actually
get a close-up so you look at that
grouping of talk about consistent
grouping
since I wasn't on the red there's still
little life which is perfectly
understandable
ah ah that was horrible what happened
then
come on let's end on the height that's
another good show ah recalibrate okay
this one here these are the shots that
happened after I moved back a couple of
meters and so again I was just having to
recover look at the grouping the tight
grouping of those four hours and it
actually happened very in close
concession to one another these are the
good ones we came near and these are
ones where something went wrong I might
have released put are poorly so my
release might have been less consistent
I might have done a different twist than
before everything's I which sent them
off in a different direction but um
you've got once we could be four you
know that's a miss five misses out of 16
arrows sorry okay you know 11 hits yeah
but I could do a lot better actually so
I just again recalibrating doing it the
distance so my average of the moment I
focusing on aiming is nearly 15 to 14
arrows on target with only one or two
misses at laban so it's getting a lot
better
and of course I've had plenty of times
when all run target without a Miss so
she's a matter of practice it's pretty
cool
you
[Music]